The next step you'd want to discuss the compare and scrap approach.
It's again one of the new approaches which was introduced in Java.
And in this like in a traditional approach let's say if I'm a member variable then it's completely synchronized.
So that would make sure that the threat of not accessing a stale you incompentence wrap approach what
we would do is in sort of synchronizing the Terminator.
We would take the value of member variable before a calculation.
So let's say there is a calculation which needs to be perform on a member variable.
And I would need to return the value after the calculation.
So what I would do is I would have the value of the member variable cached so I have a temporary cache
of that value and I would perform the calculation on the calculation.
I would compare the cached value with the current value of the member variable.
So the cached value and the current value are the same then.
This means that nobody has modified the thread.
So that means I can go ahead and store the calculated result into the member variable.
However let's say if the thread has modified the value then the cached value would be different from
the current value.
In this scenario what we would do is we might either do the calculation again or we might skip it because
there is another thread which updated the value with the latest value.
So this is what is called compare and wrap approach.
This is this approach is used by concrete linked.
Q basically indicum parents wrap approach instead of using synchronized keyword to prevent threats accessing
Stael value.
What we do is we kind of cache the initial value do the calculation and then compare the new value with
the initial value.
If they are the same then the value has not been modified so that's good.
So we can go into they devalue the new value hollower if something has changed we need to take some
other action.
So that basically the compare and swap approach.
The next thing is what is a lock and how is it different from using synchronized approach.
The thing is about the synchronized approach let's just take a simple example get the vector class where
we had a lot of method with synchronized one to have synchronized on admitted.
Then it would mean that only one thread can be executing any of these hundred to that at any point in
time that did not have any construct other than synchronize so either you can use a synchronize or nothing
all you want really is love to access any of these hundred metrics at any given point in time.
And that's a pretty severe constraint.
And that's where Jowler came in with this concept called a lock.
We saw the use of a lock on copy on bright areas.
Right so what did we do.
So we were using a log.
So we had a dart lock.
We have a log defined in here and we're using this lock on basic feek method where we want to lock high
alert.
The most important thing with locks is I can create another variable so in addition to this I can create
another variable called lock 2 and I can have 50 methods synchronized in 50 minute waiting for lock
one and 50 minutes waiting for lock to based on what we have waiting for.
We can have different methods so you can divide the methods which are declared as synchronized in two
different blocks.
So all these methods when they are synchronized it means only one thread would be good and only one
thread would be excluding any of them at any point in time.
But with the lock and unlock kind of a thing which is introduced in Java 5 you can divide this method
into groups let's extend that.
All of them don't need to be synchronized at the same time.
What you can do I think these three methods use this lock these four methods to use this lock and these
four methods used this lock so locks brings in more flexibility to how you handle concurrency and thereby
you'll be able to have multiple threads executing these methods at the same time and thereby increasing
the performance the way you create a lock and use it is very simple so you can see that in the copy
as well as a list.
So you have a lock which is a new re-entrant block.
That's what we're using to create a lock here.
And you can see that in all the other places we checked for the lock so we try and get the lock one
Lobert lock is called up.
This method would complete execution only and we have the lock to execute this particular method.
So once we have the lock then we will go and exude the logic.
And at the end we would unlock it.
So this is how you use the locks.
We get the lock we lock it lock metal it's basically request.
I would want to lock this code if there is no other method which is using this particular lock.
Then I would get the lock are going to use the logic and then I would go ahead and unlock it.
So the advantage of using locks is the fact that I can create three or four of these kind of knocks
and in different groups of methods I can use different locks and thereby I can have more concurrency.
What's this thing called unsupported operation X action.
You know that all the Java collection text him collection interface.
There are a lot of methods which are employed and which are defined in the collection interface.
So all the collection sometimes do not implement everything that is present in the collection interface.
So in these kind of scenarios what would happen is you would throw an unsupported operation exception
a good example is when I use the error a lot and it's not as list when I use an address.
At least what it does it creates an unmodified able list.
So you cannot change this list at all.
So when you try and do this we want this.
It would through an unsupported operation exception.
Next thing we want to discuss is the difference between fail safe and fail fast iterators fail first
iteration was one of the default behaviors of the synchronous collections.
That's basically the Java five things.
So let's say we take a hash map and I have a list of values in the hash map I created and I traded for
it.
And while am looping around it and putting a new value into the map Wilen I'd written this looping.
I'm trying to put a new value into the map.
What happens is in this kind of scenario it would throw an exception.
So it would throw a concurrent modification exception and trying to loop around and there's an iterator
looping around her or somebody is trying to modify the map also.
So in these kind of situations earlier we used to throw a concurrent modification exception the face
if operators failsafe iterators on the other hand do not throw exceptions even when there are changes
in the collection.
For example if you take the concurrent hash map which is one of the latest one of the hash maps which
was introduced in our file you can do this operation without a problem.
So this would not throw an exception.
What the fail safe or freight train does is it takes a copy of the internal data structure so it takes
a copy and iterate over the copy.
So that's basically the reason why it doesn't throw an exception.
It is not really acting on the current object but it is taking a copy and acting on the copy of the
object the failsafe operations are really efficient when the leads are much much more than.
Right.
So when you have more to eat then the right operations then in those kinds of situations Decameron hash
map kind of things give you optimal performance.
Next we would want to discuss water atomic operations in Java.
SEE ADAMIC operation is basically something which happens or does not happen.
There is no middle ground.
So you cannot stop an atomic action in between.
So it's either complete or incomplete.
For example we have this operation called blissfulness.
Right.
The thing is I place this is not a simple operation.
What we need to do is we need to read de-value off I then add 1 to it and then store it into it.
So these are three different operations that need to be performed.
Why not just do something simple as idlis.
Plus what would happen if after I add 1 to the variable and before I started into some of that great
axes the values and tries to do something with it so it can result in unexpected behavior.
How do we really make this kind of stuff atomic.
The reason why jawab provides these atomic operations so these atomic operations are usually performed
as a single unit.
So a good example for that is atomic in danger.
If you look at the Java code there is a class called Atomic integer.
So it in Java you take an atomic.
So this particular thing as you can read here it says atoms can be used in applications like atomic
only incremented counters.
If you look at the method which I present in here the important method that we want to think about is
increment and get decrement and get.
You can see and get even add operation increment operation decrement operation.
We have methods which we can do atomically when we use Anadan we can indeed we can be sure that either
the operation is completely done or not at all.
Next we would want to discuss about the blocking.
Q So queue blocking Q is typically used in the producer consumer scenarios.
So a lot of times a consumer wants to check if there is an element in the queue and would want to wait
for an element to be present on the queue.
I'm ok if I say a consumer click on a.
Kuder get an element and I can wait for a long time for an element to be available because the consumer
does not have anything to do until an element is available.
So the blocking you queue is for that kind of scenario.
We already discussed blocking in detail as part of the collections section.
Go.
Those are the important things that you need to know about the new current kind of collection.
So we discuss about copyright.
Comparing to app locks we discuss about also the Fail-Safe and fail fast raters other than discussing
a little bit about atomic operations and blocking queue until the next step.
I.